{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12540\viewh15220\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Lab 1 Worksheet\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Work by Rian Brumfield\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
\
Answer the following questions by modifying this text file. Add your answer below each question.\
\
1. Where is the assertEquals method defined? What does it do? Can we use assertEquals for more than just int types? (Hint: Consult the API for JUnit)\
\

\f1\b The assertEquals method is defined in org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions. AssertEquals can be used for doubles, longs, objects, floats. There is also the Assertion assertArrayEquals for arrays.
\f0\b0 \
\
2. Briefly describe what each of the three tests is checking.\
\

\f1\b The emptyArray() test checks that -1 is returned for an empty array because there are no numbers to take the difference of.\

\f0\b0 \
\
3. Why is our unimplemented findSmallestDiff method passing one of the tests?\
\

\f1\b Our findSmallestDiff is returning zero always and it just so happens that an array of all the same numbers will have a smallest difference of zero
\f0\b0 . \
\
\
\
4. Why are we failing the third test? How should our method be modified to correct this?\

\f1\b \
We are failing the third test because it is counting large negative numbers as a smaller difference than small, positive numbers. To correct this, we must compare the absolute value of the differences to ensure we are in fact finding the smallest difference.
\f0\b0 \
\
\
5. What is the appropriate call to assertEquals for your new test (test 4)?\
\

\f1\b asseryEquals(2, Diff.Util.smallestDiff(arr4);\

\f0\b0 \
\
6. Provide one more test (test 5) for the findSmallestDiff method. Briefly describe your test and write the call to assertEquals here.\
\

\f1\b My test (test 8, actually) was with an array of size one to ensure that arrays of size one and zero also return -1 because there are no differences to be made. 
\f0\b0 \
\
7. Briefly describe your unit tests for Assignment 1.\
\
My unit tests tested cases where \
\
1. The array is empty \'97> returns -1;\
2. The array consists of only the same number \'97> returns 0;\
3. randomIntArray \'97> returns 4;\
4. The Array consists only of even numbers. In order \'97> returns 2;\
5 The Array consists of the max integer value and min integer value \'97> returns 1;\
6. The Array consists of max integer value and zero \'97> returns 2147483647;\
7. The Array consists only of negative numbers, the smallest difference between -57 and -55 \'97> returns 2;\
8. The array consists of only one integer \'97> returns -1\
9. The array consists of many ints with one repeated number \'97> returns 0;\
\
\
\
\
\
}